Okay, so let's go ahead and get started
with our development process.
The first thing we'll do
is we'll enable the User Registration in the Okta Dashboard,
and then we'll configure the code in our login component.
Okay, so let's go ahead
and just log in to our Okta Dashboard,
and it's using the account that we've already created.
So in my example, I have Demo. Demo Darby.
And then here, I go to Users and then choose Registration.
And so, we'll move over to the top right corner here,
and I'll click on Edit for this Registration section.
And so we see that Self-Service Registration is disabled.
We'll go ahead and enable it.
And then also make sure that this checkbox is selected
to show the Sign Up link.
We'll go ahead and keep the other defaults here
for this section.
Moving down to Registration Form,
we see the label they'll use for email, for password,
and some of the other items,
and I'll just go ahead and keep the defaults here.
Moving down to Post-Registration,
we see this area here for Activation requirements.
And so this is where you can enable or disable
the activation requirements.
And so remember, I said earlier,
mandatory activation, that's good,
when can go to production,
to make sure they have a valid email address.
And then the optional activation, that's good for DEV.
So for testing, so you can make use
of fake email addresses or test email addresses
just to kind of test things out.
So it's really up to you which approach you want to use here,
but I recommend mandatory for production use.
And then also, we have this Default redirect,
basically saying once they log in,
then this is the actual URL that we'll send them to.
So I'll make use of our home picked URL, localhost:4200.
And then we'll go ahead and save these settings here.
Okay, great. Everything is set up at this point.
Let's go ahead and sign out of this account.
And now what I'd like to do
is just kind of switch over to my IDE
and go ahead and take care of the coding work.
So I'll move down to my src, app, components,
to my login.component.
I'll open up my login.component.ts.
And so what I need to do here
is just add an additional configuration in my constructor
when I'm creating this OktaSignIn widget.
And so I'll add this entry here for features.
And I'll have registration: true.
All right, I'll just kind of highlight this for a second.
So this is the one entry here that you need to add
for this portion of coding.
So let's go ahead and test this application out.
So the first thing I want to do
is make sure my backend code is running.
So I'll swing in to IntelliJ,
make sure our SpringBoot app is up and running.
If not, go ahead and start it now.
Swing back in to Visual Studio Code
and go ahead and start my Angular app.
All right, so I can swing in to my web browser now.
And what I'll do is I'll open up a new incognito browser,
or a new private browser,
just to make sure I don't have
any previous sessions out there.
I'll go to my luv2shop application.
I'll choose this Login button over here.
And so in this case, I want to sign up a new user.
So, I'll kind of move to the bottom here
and I'll choose Sign up.
So that's nice. We have this feature enabled now.
And then I'll simply go ahead, and enter an email address.
And so I'll just kind of play around with a test email address
or a fake email address, snoopy@luv2code.com.
I'm just totally making this up right now,
because we're not verifying the email address here.
Now I go ahead and register this user.
Okay, great. So now this user's registered in the backend.
I can go ahead and sign in to the application here.
So I'll enter that same information, snoopy@luv2code.com.
All right, so now I'm successfully logged in.
And if we swing it to the top right,
we can see Welcome back Snoopy Darby!
So we know that this user is really stored
in the Okta system.
So this is great. I'm really, really happy about this.
But I always like to kind of verify things, right? (laughs)
Double-check, so let's go ahead and log out right here.
And let me kind of zoom back down for a bit.
And I'll actually just log in with my regular account.
So here I'm going to log in
as my original developer account, my demo@luv2code.com.
That's the one that I created
when I set everything up at first.
So not the new account,
but the one that we've always used before.
All right, so I'm logged in as my demo account.
I can go in to Users, People,
and I can see the list.
Demo Darby, that's the one that I started with,
and then Snoopy Darby.
Great, so that's that new user account
that was just created, awesome.
And then I can go ahead and check on the Profile
for this account,
and I can see the information, Snoopy Darby.
So this is great.
So, we were able to allow users to register themselves,
and they could do it automatically
by setting up those configs
that we created a little bit earlier.
So this is great. Good job.